You've shagged
We've shagged
Hello
We are
The land in no junction you've shed
And we've been working on the famous story of Beth Gellert
We've even written our own play about it
However, not many people know the real facts behind a legend
So, if you listen to the play first
Then afterwards we'll tell you the shocking truth
The story of Beth Gellert
One day, hundreds of years ago, in the 13th century
Prince Ruelin and Prince F. Joan are staying at the Summer Palace
In the pretty village of Beth Gellert
When they decide to go hunting
Let's go hunting Joan, look it's a gorgeous day
But what about the baby?
Joan, what do we have servants for?
We can leave Griff with one of them
Marie
Yes, my lady
The prince and I are going out hunting
Will you look after Prince Griffith for us please?
He's in his cot, see, fast asleep
Yes, of course, my lady
The baby will be quite safe than me
We'll probably be out most of the afternoon
But we won't be too late
I'll call the dogs
Gellert, Taron, Maddox, Bryn, Conwy
Gellert, Gellert
Gellert was their favourite hunting dog
Um, where's Gellert?
Oh, he'll be around somewhere
He'll catch up
He's faster than all our other dogs put together
Is dear old Gellert
Come on, let's go and saddle up
We're wasting time
Servant Marie watches the hunting party gallop off in the sunshine
As the prince and princess ride away
I think to myself
They expect me to stay inside when it's perfectly good weather out there
The baby's in his cot, I'm fast asleep
No harm can come to him
I go downstairs and cross the great hall towards the door
And shout to the other servants
I'm going out for a walk
Then I open the door
And go out laughing to myself
He he he he
I'll be back before then
And they'll never know
But when she goes out
The servant doesn't shut the door properly
And along comes a huge sea wolf
There are still wolves in Wales in the 13th century
Well, someone's been careless
The palace door is open and cracked
And I'm hungry
I'll just nudge the door so that it's a little bit more open.
I wonder what I'll find inside.
A moment later, Gellert, the prince and princess's favourite dog,
who's also seen his master and mistress setting off on their hunt,
is just about to run and join them when passing through the royal bedchambers,
he notices something.
Ruff, ruff!
Wait, hang on, the baby's on his own.
They never leave the baby on his own.
They always make sure he's with someone.
Where's the servant?
I'd better go have a close look and make sure he's all right.
Ruff, ruff!
I'm lying in my car having a nice nap
and when I wake up I see Gellert standing next to me.
I love Gellert.
He's my mummy and daddy's favourite hunting hound, all soft and velvety.
So I say, hello, Gellert.
Dogs can't understand baby language,
but I think Gellert gets the general idea because he says back.
Ruff, ruff!
Hello, baby.
Babies can't understand dog language either,
but I think Griff also must get the general idea because then he says,
I love you, Gellert.
Ruff, ruff!
Just a minute.
What's that at the bedchamber door?
That doesn't smell familiar.
Ah, it's a wolf.
I'm a bit scared.
Alone with a baby facing a wolf.
Maybe we could just run and hide,
but where would we hide?
Or maybe we could just run really fast,
but no, I'm being silly.
A baby can't run,
and even if we could, a wolf can run really fast too.
Hmm.
I spy with my little eye a nice, succulent, juicy baby.
Ruff!
And a dog.
But not really a very big one.
Oh no!
I can see a big, sharp, dark wolf coming slowly towards me.
Ruff!
I have to protect the baby.
It's going to bite me!
Gellert!
Ruff!
This wolf's really too big for me.
I don't know what to do.
Well, there's not a lot I can do.
I'm a baby, so I start to cry.
Ruff!
Gellert!
After everything the prince and princess have done for me,
I have to save him.
I have to fight.
That's what the prince and princess want me to do.
Help! Help!
Gellert!
He's part of my family, and that's what families do.
They look out for each other.
Help me, Gellert!
So, I need to kill it.
Ruff!
You can try.
Help!
Don't worry, Griff.
Everything's going to be all right.
I'm just nudging you out of the crib so you can roll underneath it for safety.
Then I'll take it on.
There.
Come on then, dog.
Ow! Ow! Ow!
Do your worst.
Ruff! Ruff! Ruff! Ruff! Ruff!
I bite and scratch at the wolf.
Ruff!
And I bite and scratch back.
Ruff! Ruff! Ruff! Ruff!
After a huge fight, I see our brave dog, Gellert,
by the big, dark, sharp wolf.
Over and over, five, maybe ten times,
the wolf crawls beneath
the great tapestry curtains.
I'm done for.
And dies.
And I am safe!
Ruff! Ruff! Ruff!
I did it.
Now, I can't lift the baby back into the cot,
so I'll just wait beside him
till my master and mistress get home,
just for safety.
Thank you, Gellert. I love you.
Meanwhile, all Prince Harannan and Princess Joan
have enjoyed their hunting.
But in spite of this, they come home early.
To be honest, they're very about to go out.
It's rather odd he didn't join us, isn't it?
Where's he got to?
I suppose he'll show up later.
There's a horrible smell in the castle, isn't there?
Let's go up and check on Griff.
They raced up the stairs.
Ruff!
I'm so happy that the Prince and Princess are back.
I can hear them cunning.
But in the bedchamber,
a terrible sight meets their eyes.
The cot is empty.
Where's our baby?
Gellert!
Where's the baby?
Why is there blood around Gellert's nose?
Where's the baby, Gellert?
Why is there fur all over the crib?
And why does it smell like death?
Gellert!
Have you killed our baby?
Ruff!
I tried to tell the Prince and Princess what's happened,
but they're human, so they can't understand dog language.
Suddenly, my dad...
...sticks a knife.
It's a Gellert!
Poor Gellert, when he's so bleed...
...and dies.
And the minute he dies...
Look, Hugh, under the crib.
It's our baby!
But I don't understand.
Why was there blood all over Gellert's?
There, look, there beneath the curtains.
A wolf, a huge she-wolf, dead.
So Gellert didn't kill our baby.
He was trying to protect it from the wolf.
Oh, no, what have I done?
Yes, you monster, what have you done?
You've killed the family dog!
Gellert, I am so sorry.
What a tragedy.
Meanwhile, the royal servant has been enjoying her walk.
Oh, I've had such a lovely walk by the river,
but at last it's time to go home.
As soon as I walk through the door,
I get this horrible stench of blood.
I almost vomit.
I go upstairs towards the baby's room.
The stench gets worse.
I walk through the door of the bedchamber
and look towards the floor.
The Prince is on his knees,
his eyes full of tears.
The Princess in tears too, holding the baby.
I see Gellert on the floor.
Dead and covered in blood.
And a huge wolf in the corner.
Also dead and covered in blood.
I realise what's happened, and that it is all my fault.
I too drop to my knees, a tear falls down my cheek.
This, this is all your fault.
I sentence you to death.
In the end, the Prince and Princess
don't put the servant to death.
But she is sucked,
and she never leaves any baby in her care,
alone, ever again.
And the agonised Prince digs the grave
for their faithful dog
by the river where the maid servant had walked
with the tombstone telling of his faithfulness and bravery.
Thousands of tourists visit this grave or berth,
as we say in Welsh, every year.
Berth, Gellert.
And is it not the saddest story you ever heard?
Now put away your tissues,
because we are going to tell you the truth behind this story.
The true story behind this story is another story.
Over 200 years ago, in 1802,
a man called David Pritchard was living in South Wales.
One day, he and his wife decided to move to North Wales.
We don't know the name of David's wife.
But we've decided to call her...
Sylwain.
We also don't know why they moved,
but we've made a few guesses.
David, we're moving.
What? Moving? But you know my dad lives here.
Yes, that's why I want to move.
Hmm, here's another guess.
David dear, I've got something to tell you.
I want us to move.
What? Why would we do that?
Because I'm absolutely sick of it here.
I don't know. It sounds like a lot of bother.
We've got our whole life here.
How would we even move all our things?
Oh, stop whining. You're always so miserable.
I'm ready for something new.
The scenery upstairs is beautiful.
Just think how lovely it would be to wake up
and see the sunrise on the mountains.
Well, that does sound nice.
Also, there's a hotel for sale for just £450.
What a bargain!
Let's do it.
So we're only guessing why the Pritchards moved,
but it is true they did buy a hotel,
though we've guessed how much it cost.
The hotel was, yes, you've guessed it,
in a pretty little village called Berthgallet,
named after an eighth-century saint
who settled here called Kellett.
Nothing to do with dogs.
And the hotel was called the Berthgallet Hotel.
It seems the hotel didn't do very well at first
for the Pritchards.
Listen David, we've been here all week and we're broke.
Yes, I know.
Tell me, have you ever heard of the folk tale
about the master and the faithful hound?
It's a very common tale all over Europe and Asia.
No, and I don't want to hear about it
unless it helps our business.
All you ever talk, David, is nonsense, nonsense, nonsense.
But it will help our business, my dear.
Let me whisper my plan into your ear.
You see, it's perfect, just perfect.
Yes, I suppose I do see some potential for a once.
Later that night.
Are you sure this is a good idea?
Yes, of course. Don't be silly.
It's a brilliant idea.
I'm not too sure.
No, I know we have no money
and we need money to pay the bills.
But what if someone finds out the truth?
Don't be stupid, no one will ever know.
Now you do it for a bit.
My hands are tired and my clothes are getting really dirty.
Right, get the box ready to put in the hole.
There, now the gravestone's in place too.
Teehee, it looks so real.
Yes, David Pritchard attached the story
of the faithful hound to a real Welsh prince called Chwelyn.
And pretended the whole thing had happened in Bethgallant.
And even dug a false grave for the imaginary dog
and erected a false gravestone telling his story.
The whole thing was a scam and it worked.
Thousands of tourists come every year to cry of the dog's grave.
And they do say that whenever money is exchanged
in the Bethgallant Hotel, now called the Royal Goat Hotel...
I'd like a room with a view please.
Follow me, that would be £1000.
You can hear the ghosts of the Pritchards laughing.
That's it.
We hope you've enjoyed our two plays in one by...
The Landed No Junction You've Shared.
You've Shared.